Mark 1:1    This is the beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.
Mark 1:2    It is written in the Prophets, “Listen! I send my messenger before you, who will prepare the way for you.
Mark 1:3    He is the voice of the one crying out in the wilderness, ‘Prepare the way of the Lord! Make his paths straight!’ ”
Mark 1:4    Then came John, baptising in the wilderness and preaching the baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
Mark 1:5    And all of the country of Judea and all of Jerusalem went to him. They were baptised in the Jordan river, confessing their sins.
Mark 1:6    John was clothed in camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist, eating locusts and wild honey.
Mark 1:7    He preached to them, saying, “The One who comes after me is certainly mightier than I. His sandals, I am not worthy to bend down and loosen.
Mark 1:8    I have baptized you with water; He, however, shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit.”
Mark 1:9    And in those days came Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. And He was baptized in the Jordan by John.
Mark 1:10    And immediately after coming up from the water, He saw the Heavens tearing open, and the Spirit like a dove descended upon Him.
Mark 1:11    A voice came from the Heavens, “You are the beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”
Mark 1:12    Right after, the Spirit drove Him out into the wilderness.
Mark 1:13    He was in the wilderness for forty days, being tempted by the Devil. He was with the wild animals, and the angels cared for him.
Mark 1:14    Now, after John had been imprisoned, Jesus went into Galilee proclaiming the Gospel of God,
Mark 1:15    saying “The time has come! God’s kingdom has drawn near. Repent and believe in the Gospel!”
Mark 1:16    Passing by the sea of Galilee, He saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. 
Mark 1:17    Jesus said to them, “Come with me, and I will make you fishers of men.”
Mark 1:18    They immediately left their nets behind and followed Him.
Mark 1:19    They went a little further, and He saw James, the son of Zebedee, and his brother, John. And these men were in the boat, tending to their nets.
Mark 1:20    Immediately, He called them, and leaving their father in the boat with the hired servants, they went after Him.
Mark 1:21    They went to Capernaum and on the Sabbath, having entered into the synagogue, He taught.
Mark 1:22    They were astonished at His teaching, for He taught them as one who had authority, and not like the scribes.
Mark 1:23    Immediately, there was in the synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out
Mark 1:24    shouting, “What do we have to do with you, Jesus, you Nazarene! Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are; you are the Holy One of God!”
Mark 1:25    Jesus responded, “Be silent and come out of him!”
Mark 1:26    The unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, came out of the man.
Mark 1:27    And they were all astonished, and they questioned among themselves, “What is this new teaching? With his authority, he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey!”
Mark 1:28    The news of him immediately spread everywhere into all the surrounding region of Galilee.
Mark 1:29    Immediately out of the synagogue, having gone forth, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Mark 1:30    Now Simon’s mother-in-law lay sick with a fever. Immediately, they spoke to Him about her.
Mark 1:31    After He came to her, He lifted her hand, and the fever had left her, and she ministered to them.
Mark 1:32    In the evening, as the sun went down, they brought all those who were sick and those being possessed by demons to Him.
Mark 1:33    All of the city was gathered together at the door.
Mark 1:34    He had healed many who were sick and suffering from various diseases and cast out many demons. But did not allow the demons to speak, for they knew Him.
Mark 1:35    Before dawn, while it was still night, He went out to a solitary place, and there He was praying.
Mark 1:36    Simon and those who were with Him searched for Him
Mark 1:37    and when they had found Him, they said to Him, “Everyone is looking for you!” 
Mark 1:38    He said to them, “Let us go to the neighboring towns, so that I may preach there as well, for this is why I came.”
Mark 1:39    And there He went, preaching in the synagogues in all of Galilee, casting out demons.
Mark 1:40    A man with a disease afflicting the skin came to Him, kneeling before Him, and begging Him, “If you are willing, you can make me clean!”
Mark 1:41    Jesus, filled with compassion for the man, placed His hand on him and He said to him, “I am willing. Be made clean.”
Mark 1:42    As soon as He said this, the ailment left him, and he was cleansed.
Mark 1:43    Having strictly warned the man, He sent him out,
Mark 1:44    and He said to him, “Tell no one about this. But go, show yourself to the priest, and offer what Moses has commanded, for a testimony to them.”
Mark 1:45    But, instead of obeying Jesus, he went out and proclaimed what He had done for him, so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a city, but only now into solitary places. People came to Him from everywhere.
Mark 2:1    He entered Capernaum again after a few days, and some heard that he was home.
Mark 2:2    Many were gathered together, to the point where there was no space, not even around the door, and He spoke the Word to them.
Mark 2:3    Four people had come carrying a paralytic.
Mark 2:4    Not being able to come near to Him, because of the crowd, they dug through the roof from where He was. They then let down the mat that the paralytic was on. 
Mark 2:5    Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, “Son, your sins are forgiven.”
Mark 2:6    There were some of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts,
Mark 2:7    “Why does this man speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?”
Mark 2:8    Immediately, Jesus, perceiving in His spirit that they were reasoning in their hearts, said to them, “Why must you reason these things in your hearts? 
Mark 2:9    What is easier to tell this man, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say ‘Get up, take your mat and walk.’?
Mark 2:10    But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins,” He then said to the paralytic,
Mark 2:11    “I tell you, get up, take your mat and go to your house.”
Mark 2:12    He got up, and immediately having taken up his mat, walked before all of them, and amazed them all, and they began to glorify God, saying “Never have we seen something like this!”
Mark 2:13    He went out again on the seaside and all the multitudes came to Him, and He taught them.
Mark 2:14    Passing by, He saw Levi, son of Alphaeus, sitting at the tax collector’s booth, and He said to him, “Follow me.” Levi got up and followed Him.
Mark 2:15    And He was reclining at the table in his house, and many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus, for there were many, and they were following Him.
Mark 2:16    The scribes of the Pharisees, seeing that He was eating with the sinners and tax collectors, said to His disciples, “Why is it that he eats with the tax collectors and sinners?”
Mark 2:17    Hearing this, Jesus said to them, “It is not the healthy who need a physician, it is the sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but the sinners.”
Mark 2:18    John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees were fasting, and they came and asked him, “Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, yet your disciples do not fast?”
Mark 2:19    Jesus replied, “Can the groomsmen fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
Mark 2:20    But the days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and they will fast in those days.
Mark 2:21    No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth onto old clothing, or else the patch will shrink, and the new tears away from the old, and a worse tear will take its place.
Mark 2:22    No one puts new wine into old wineskins, or else the new wine will burst the skins, and the wine pours out, and the skins will be destroyed; but they put new wine into fresh wineskins.”
Mark 2:23    On the Sabbath, He was passing through the grainfields, and his disciples began to pluck the heads of grain.
Mark 2:24    The Pharisees said to Jesus, “Why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath?”
Mark 2:25    He answered them, “Have you never read what David did when he and those who were with him became hungry?
Mark 2:26    How he entered the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the bread of the Presence, which is not lawful for anyone to eat except the priests, and gave it also to those who were with him?”
Mark 2:27    He said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.
Mark 2:28    So, the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath.”
